# CS-360-ParentPlanner-

This repository includes my application that I developed for CS-360. The application is called ParentPlanner and the main goal of this android application is to help parents organize their childrens busy schedule with a feature to optionally send SMS to the users phone upon the day of the event. The user can create a ParentPlanner account, add events, update events and delete events. This application was tested to run on android 8.0. ParentPlanner provides an simple and easy user interface that allows parents whether they are new to technology or have experience with mobile applications. The login screen shows allows the user to login or create account. Upon logging in or creating the an account the event tracker screen shows the event grid that allows users to add, update, and delete events. The event tracker UI shows the core functionalities of the application in a simple but effective manner and allows all user types to easily track their events. This UI design approach was sucessful becuase it allows the users to easily navigate the application with feeling lost or overwhelmed. For example, the SMS notification settings button allows the user to manage their preference on whether or not they want to enable SMS texts on the day of the events and tells the users the status. My process of coding ParentPlanner was to first create the UI screens. After that, I created each java class that corresponds to the UI while keeping my classes and my methods simple. I also put comments in my code that shows what each method does so that anybody viewing this application can easily follow. I will expand on these techiques in the future as this works the best and adheres to industry standards. To test this application, I tested as I program. This means that when I completed a java class, I ran the app to ensure that each UI screen works properly. To me, this part of the development process was important as testing as I write the code helps with ensuring that the application is running as intended. When considering the Software Developement Lifecycle of ParentPlanner, I needed to innovate the UI to address the various amounts user type meaning I needed to make the app simple for parents whom are not as tech savvy as some while being able to draw the tech savvy parents to the application. A challenge that I overcame during the development of ParentPlanner was writing maintainable java class that are simple and not too complicated. As a CS student who aspires to work with data, this application shows my developing skills in learning how applications store data. For this project, I needed to create two data tables; one that stores the user log in information and one that stores events. 
